feat: scale to zero (#265)
GameFabric/docs: src/multiplayer-servers/multiplayer-services/scale-to-zero.md

> # Scale to Zero (Alpha)

Reviewer: I said it before but eventually I'd prefer if we replaced all of the section names with `(Alpha)` with admonitions that just warn the user that those features are experimental. Otherwise we'll be breaking links all over the place, and on top of that it's not that obvious when it's only in the section title.

Reviewer: You lied though, you only added a `::: warning Alpha feature` admonition for one of them. All of the experimental features should include that warning imo.

Author: I pushed a change for the alpha warning in scale to zero. The one for dynamic buffer sounds ok to me. What's missing?

The limit is currently configured.

::: warning Node Outage
Since the resource limits are configured, and not calculated, a node outage might lead to inaccurate resource limits,
and thus inaccurate utilization, which can lead to wrong scaling decisions.
:::

### Panicking or no ready replicas

The last metric does not impact the calculated utilization, but can override the scaling decisions.

**Ready replicas** are the number of game servers that are in the `Ready` state, which means they are healthy and available to be allocated to players.
If this number drops to zero, it means that there are no more game servers available. This can either mean game servers are being allocated quickly,
or mean the buffer size is too low, or the game server startup time is too long.

[Dynamic Buffers](./armada-replicas-and-buffer#dynamically-configuring-the-buffer-size-alpha) can be used to mitigate this, but a very high and sudden increase
cannot be mitigated.

Another reason for no more ready replicas could be that game servers are unable to _become_ ready. This can be caused by various issues,

> such as problems with the game server configuration, issues with the underlying infrastructure, or problems with the game server software itself.

Author: @copilot apply changes based on [this feedback](https://github.com/GameFabric/docs/pull/265#discussion_r3088896389)

In any case, when there are no `Ready` replicas left for several consecutive checks, and at least the duration of the (configurable) Autoscaler interval,
GameFabric panics and immediately scales up the lower priority Region Type, regardless of the calculated utilization, to quickly provide more capacity.
This state is reported as `ScaleUpPanicked`, whereas regular states are `ScaledUp` and `ScaledToZero`.

> ::: warning Negative impact of panicking

Reviewer: Not sure what panicking means here? Do you mean crashing as in a Go app that panics?

> There is a trade-off when panicking, as a misconfiguration of the game server, can find its way into expensive cloud,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a trade-off when panicking, as a misconfiguration of the game server can find its way into expensive cloud,
```

as without Scale to Zero, the lower priority Region Type would already be scaled up.
:::

## Reaction time

The reaction time of Scale to Zero depends on the Autoscaler interval, which sets the desired replicas.
It defaults to `30s` and can be configured per Armada, see GameFabric &raquo; Armada &raquo; Advanced or API `armada.spec.autoscaler.fixedInterval.seconds`.

The observed replicas are reported back in real-time, but subject to rate-limiting on the cluster and GameFabric side, each usually around `10s`,
leading to another potential delay.

A realistic reaction time for Scale to Zero is <2 minutes.

## Configuration

There are two configuration options for Scale to Zero, which can be set on an Armada/Region-level.
Finding a good configuration is crucial for a good balance between cost-saving and performance, and can be different for each game, or even each Region.

- **Scale Up Utilization**:

  The threshold at which GameFabric scales up the lower priority Region Type. Valid values must be between 1 and 99, but values equal to 95% or higher are
  highly discouraged.

>   ::: warning Values >= 95% are highly discouraged

Author: Outdated? Can't find that anymore.

## Utilization

Utilization is the percentage of used capacity compared to the total available capacity per Armada Region Type.
When utilization hits a certain configurable threshold, GameFabric scales up the capacity of the lower priority Region Type.
When utilization drops below a certain configurable threshold, GameFabric scales down the capacity of the lower priority Region Type.

The Region Type with the highest priority is never scaled down (state `ScaledUpLocked`).

**Example:**

Listed are two Armadas running in the same Region.

- `Armada 1` / `EU` / `baremetal` is at `90%`, and would scale up `cloud`<sup>1</sup>, while
- `Armada 2` / `EU` / `baremetal` is at `30%`, and would not scale `cloud`<sup>1</sup>.

<table width="100%">
  <thead>
    <tr valign="top">
      <th>Armada</th>
      <th>Region</th>
      <th>Region Type</th>
      <th>Prio</th>
      <th>Metric</th>
      <th colspan="2">Utilization</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4">Armada 1</td>
      <td rowspan="4">EU</td>
      <td rowspan="2">baremetal</td>
      <td rowspan="2">0</td>
      <td>Replicas</td>
      <td>90%</td>
      <td rowspan="2">90%</td>
    </tr>

>     <tr>

Author: Leave my table how it is!

This state is reported as `ScaleUpPanicked`, whereas regular states are `ScaledUp` and `ScaledToZero`.

::: warning Negative impact of panicking
There is a trade-off when panicking, as a misconfiguration of the game server can find its way into expensive cloud,
even when the misconfiguration and the inability to start the game server has nothing to do with capacity.

There is no way for GameFabric to determine reliably what kind of issue is causing the lack of ready replicas, and so it panics to be on the safe side,
as without Scale to Zero, the lower priority Region Type would already be scaled up.
:::

## Reaction time

The reaction time of Scale to Zero depends on the Autoscaler interval, which sets the desired replicas.
It defaults to `30s` and can be configured per Armada, see **GameFabric > Armada > Advanced** or via API `armada.spec.autoscaler.fixedInterval.seconds`.

The observed replicas are reported back in real-time, but subject to rate-limiting on the cluster and GameFabric side, each usually around `10s`,
leading to another potential delay.

> A realistic reaction time for Scale to Zero is <2 minutes.

Author: Stop suggesting that, I don't want it.

# Scale to Zero (Alpha)

Scale to Zero is a cost-saving feature that allows GameFabric, when enabled, to scale down configured capacity when there is no demand.

> This can save infrastructure costs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can save infrastructure costs.
```

Trailing whitespaces, lots of them in this doc everywhere.

When demand returns, GameFabric automatically scales up the capacity to meet it.

The feature is disabled by default, and is configurable per [Armada](../getting-started/glossary.md#armada) and [Region](../getting-started/glossary.md#region). 
It can only scale down capacity when base capacity is available. 
Availability of base capacity is ensured by requiring at least two Region Types within the Region, 
 so that the highest priority Region Type can serve as base capacity,
 allowing GameFabric to determine whether demand is low enough to scale down the lower priority Region Type.

Scale to Zero is currently in Alpha.

## Recommended Region Types

A Region describes a geographic location, whereas a Region Type splits these locations logically.

The most common Region Types distinguish _baremetal_ from the different _cloud_ capacities, usually prioritized by cost or performance.

The priority allows GameFabric to put game servers on the higher priority Region Type first, and only when there is no capacity left, on the lower priority
Region

> Types.

Author: ```suggestion
The priority allows GameFabric to put game servers on the higher priority Region Type first, and only when there is no capacity left, on the lower priority Region Types.
```

**Example:**

- Region `US`
    - Region Type `baremetal`
    - Region Type `cloud`
- Region `EU`
    - Region Type `baremetal`
    - Region Type `cloud`

### Alternatives

Other configurations are also possible, such as prioritizing by performance, when only cloud offers the ideal CPUs, or when baremetal experiences connection

> issues.

Author: ```suggestion
Other configurations are also possible, such as prioritizing by performance, when only cloud offers the ideal CPUs, or when baremetal experiences connection issues.
```

## Utilization

Utilization is the percentage of used capacity compared to the total available capacity per Armada Region Type.
When utilization hits a certain configurable threshold, GameFabric scales up the capacity of the lower priority Region Type.
When utilization drops below a certain configurable threshold, GameFabric scales down the capacity of the lower priority Region Type.

The Region Type with the highest priority is never scaled down (state `ScaledUpLocked`).

**Example:**

Listed are two Armadas running in the same Region.
- `Armada 1` / `EU` / `baremetal` is at `90%`, and would scale up `cloud`<sup>1</sup>, while

> - `Armada 2` / `EU` / `baremetal` is at `30%`, and would not scale `cloud`<sup>1</sup>.

Reviewer: Missing empty lines around list

      <td colspan="2">Utilization</td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4">Armada 1</td>
      <td rowspan="4">EU</td>
      <td rowspan="2">baremetal</td>
      <td rowspan="2">0</td>
      <td>Replicas</td>
      <td>90%</td>
      <td rowspan="2">90%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resource usage<sup>2</sup></td>
      <td>30%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="2">cloud</td>
      <td rowspan="2">1</td>
      <td>Replicas</td>
      <td>0%</td>
      <td rowspan="2">0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resource usage<sup>2</sup></td>
      <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="4">Armada 2</td>
        <td rowspan="4">EU</td>
        <td rowspan="2">baremetal</td>
        <td rowspan="2">0</td>
        <td>Replicas</td>
        <td>10%</td>
        <td rowspan="2">30%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resource usage<sup>2</sup></td>
      <td>30%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="2">cloud</td>
        <td rowspan="2">0</td>
        <td>Replicas</td>
        <td>0%</td>
        <td rowspan="2">0%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Resource usage<sup>2</sup></td>
      <td>0%</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> <sup>

Reviewer: What's that?

1) if configured that way,
2) Note that resources are Armada-independent, but affecting each others utilization.
</sup>

> ### **Replicas**

Reviewer: Why make the section title bold?

One metric to calculate the utilization is replicas divided by max replicas. Numbers are collected per Armada Region Type.

The **replicas** represent the desired total number of game servers, including the minimum number of replicas, the buffer size, and the number of servers that have already been `Allocated`.
This number includes all game servers in all states, including but not limited to:
`Starting`, `Ready`, `Unhealthy`, and `Error`.

The **max replicas** are the maximum number of replicas.

> It is configurable together as part of the Distribution, see GameFabric &raquo; Armada &raquo; Scaling or via API `armada.spec.distribution[].maxReplicas`.

Author: ```suggestion
It is configurable as part of the Distribution, see GameFabric &raquo; Armada &raquo; Scaling or via API `armada.spec.distribution[].maxReplicas`.
```

### **Resource usage**

Another metric to calculate the utilization is the resource usage divided by the resource limits. Numbers are collected per Region Type.

Game servers consume resources, such as CPU, Memory and Pod count.

The **resource usage** are the actual resources consumed by all Armadas, or Vessels, running on a particular Location that belongs to that Region Type.

::: info Scaled to Zero does not mean 0% utilization
One Armada can impact the utilization of another Armada, leading to its scale up even when load for that Armada seems stable.

> This can also lead to the false expectation that an Armada Region Type that is scaled to zero must have a 0% utilization.

Author: This is wild btw. Just not sure how to avoid that.

:::

The **Resource limits** are the maximum resources that can be consumed by all Armadas, or Vessels, running on a particular Location that belongs to that Region
Type.

> The limit is currently configured.

Author: ```suggestion
The **resource limits** are the maximum resources that can be consumed by all Armadas, or Vessels, running on a particular Location that belongs to that Region
Type.
The limit is currently configured.
```

::: warning Node Outage
Since the resource limits are configured, and not calculated, a node outage might lead to inaccurate resource limits,
and thus inaccurate utilization, which can lead to wrong scaling decisions.
:::

### **Panicking or no ready replicas**

> The last metric is not a percentage, but a toggle, and can override the calculated utilization and scaling decisions.

Author: ```suggestion
The last metric does not impact the calculated utilization, but can override the scaling decisions.
```

In any case, when there are no `Ready` replicas left for several consecutive checks, and at least the duration of the (configurable) Autoscaler interval,
GameFabric panics and immediately scales up the lower priority Region Type, regardless of the calculated utilization, to quickly provide more capacity.
This state is reported as `ScaleUpPanicked`, whereas regular states are `ScaledUp` and `ScaledToZero`.

::: warning Negative impact of panicking
There is a trade-off when panicking, as a misconfiguration of the game server, can find its way into expensive cloud,
even when the misconfiguration and the inability to start the game server has nothing to do with capacity.

There is no way for GameFabric to determine reliably what kind of issue is causing the lack of ready replicas, and so it panics to be on the safe side,
as without Scale to Zero, the lower priority Region Type would already be scaled up.
:::

## Reaction time

The reaction time of Scale to Zero depends on the Autoscaler interval, which sets the desired replicas. It defaults to `30s`.

> See Armada &raquo; Scaling or API `armada.spec.autoscaler.fixedInterval.seconds`.

Reviewer: What's &raquo;

Author: That was my approach to show how you navigate to this in the UI. Do you have an idea how to make this clearer? (rephrased it a bit, prefixing it with GameFabric. Maybe that's better?)

Reviewer: I think in other pages we show page hierarchy differently, but I dont recall how. We should be consistent with this imo

Author: "Bold with >". Updated it.

Finding a good configuration is crucial for a good balance between cost-saving and performance, and can be different for each game, or even each Region.

- **Scale Up Utilization**:

  The threshold at which GameFabric scales up the lower priority Region Type. Valid values must be between 1 and 99, but values equal to 95% or higher are
  highly discouraged.

  ::: warning Values >= 95% are highly discourated
  No one want to waste resources, but game servers take time to startup, and so does infrastructure.
  When the threshold is too high, it can lead to a very late scale up.

  Additionally and more important, in some situations it might be possible that no more game servers fit into the remaining capacity,
  but the scale up utilization is not yet hit. This leaves the lower Region Type scaled to zero, even though there is demand.
  :::

- **Scale Down Utilization**:

  The threshold at which GameFabric scales down the lower priority Region Type.

It is allowed to set both Scale Up and Scale Down Utilization to the same value, but this can lead to flapping and an increase scaling activity.

> It is recommended to have a 5% gap between the two.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to have at least a 5% gap between the two.
```

::: info
The UI only allows to set the Scale Up Utilization, and automatically sets the Scale Down Utilization to 5% less.

> This also explains why the minimum value for Scale Up Utilization is 6%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason the minimum value for Scale Up Utilization is 6%.
```
